Introduction: 
MedicAid+ is a PHP-based website. The goal of this project was to create a blood management information system that would aid in the maintenance of blood donor 
records and make it easier or more controlled to distribute blood around the country based on hospital demand.

Every organization, whether big or small, has challenges to overcome and managing the information of Donor, Blood Bank, Blood, Plasma, Patient, Blood Group, Ambulance and volunteering work. Every Blood Bank Management System has different Blood Bank needs. Therefore, we design exclusive systems that are adapted to your managerial requirements. These systems will ultimately allow you to better manage resources.

The inspiration of this project is to improve blood banks in Bangladesh and to develop a blood bank information system which focuses on making an online system that is accessible for both donors and administrators. Donors can directly receive information regarding their previous blood donations, including their blood results and donation history, in order to easily schedule their next donations. They can also update the personal information through the system, without having to contact the administrator. Here user can participate in volunteering too by doing the registration. A user can make an appointment through the system for a schedule of doctors.

The application is reduced as much as possible to avoid errors while entering the data. It also provides error message while entering invalid data. No formal knowledge is needed for the user to use this system. Thus, by this all it proves it is user-friendly. MedicAid, as described above, can lead to error free, secure, reliable and fast management system. It can assist the user to concentrate on their other activities rather to concentrate on the record keeping. Thus, it will help organization in better utilization of resources.




Abstract of MedicAid

MedicAid is a voluntary and non-governmental organization. It maintains Online library of blood and plasma donors in Bangladesh. Sometimes Doctors and Blood bank project have to face the difficulty in finding the blood group Donors at right time. Same goes for plasma donor too. MedicAid has attempted to provide the answer by taking upon itself the task of collecting Blood and plasma bank project nationwide for the cause and care of people in need. At any point of time the people who are in need can reach the donors through our search facility. By mobilizing people and organization who desire to make a difference in the lives of people in need. On the basis of humanity, Everyone is welcome to register as a blood & plasma donor. Even you can register for ambulance and volunteer also. If there is any emergency, you can find an ambulance also. Even MedicAid has many volunteering opportunities. Many people do volunteering works and anyone can register to do so.

MedicAid is a browser-based system that is designed to store, process, retrieve and analyze information concerned with the administrative and inventory management. This project aims at maintaining all the information pertaining to blood donors, plasma donors, different blood groups available, ambulance need, volunteer and help them manage in a better way. Aim is to provide transparency in this field, make the process of obtaining blood, plasma, ambulance and volunteer hassle free and corruption free and make the system of MedicAid effective.






Goals of the Project:

The goal of the project is to develop a web application for blood banks and plasma bank to manage information about their donors and stock. The main objectives of this website development can be defined as follows:
1. To develop a system that provides functions to support donors to view and manage their information conveniently.
2. To maintain records of blood donors, plasma donors, blood donation information and plasma donation information in a centralized database system.
3. To inform donors of their blood result after their donation.
4. To support searching, matching and requesting for blood convenient for administrators
5. To be a volunteer to support every situation in need.
6. Make donation for the people who need.
7. Emergency ambulance availability.




Our primary goal is to solve all those problems and make the life easier to the users to get their requirements.





User Requirements:
There are two internal users involved in this system. The user requirements are considered as follows:
Donor
1. To be able to view their donation records, including where and when they made donations, and the blood results for each, to learn of their donated blood quality
2. To be able to view and update their personal information, including name, contact number and address to keep their donor’s information record up to date with the blood bank. 
3. To be notified of the blood results of their previous donation by e-mail, to know the success of their donation. 

Administrator
1. To be able to create, update, delete, and query donor’s records in order to manage donor information.
2. To be able to create, update, delete, and retrieve donation records to manage information about donations made.
3. To be able to deposit donated blood into inventory when donations are made.
4. To be able to withdraw blood from the inventory and keep a record of bloodstocks to always keep count of the blood bags. 
5. To be able to create, update, delete, and retrieve request records from hospitals to manage hospital requests for blood.
6. To be able to create, update, delete, and query hospital’s records in order to manage hospital information.
7. To be able to send e-mails to donors for their user account and blood results through the system. 
8. To be able to send e-mail responding to hospitals for their blood request through the system.








Features of the project:
1) Creating & Changing Issues at ease
2) User Accounts to control the access and maintain security
3) Attachments & Additional Comments for more information
4) It contains better storage capacity.
5) Easy & fast retrieval of information.
6) Decrease the load of the person involve in existing manual system.
7) Access of any information individually.
8) Work becomes very speedy.
9) Easy to update information


Features:
--------------
Online transfer of blood from one blood bank to another.
Provide a list of Donors who are eligible for donations on a particular date with a contact number.
Inventory management in blood bank for storage and issuance of blood.
Patient Register/ Blood Sample Receiving Register, Donor Register, Blood Issue Register and Discarded Blood report.
Donor Management- Donor Registration, Managing donor database, recording their physical and medical statistics.



Survey/Questionnaire:

Several different surveys have been completed using different methods. Below there is a basic template which is used on survey.

•	How old are you?
•	What is your profession?
•	How often do you need to use health care services?
•	In your family how many people need to use health care services?
•	Do you or your family face any difficulties while using health care            services?
•	Which features you think you will need most in the health care services?
•	How satisfied are you with the available workflows in those services?
•	Have you used a health care related websites before?
•	Do you get your desired health care services from those websites?
•	What features you think it should be include in those websites?



MODULES OF MedicAid:

MedicAid is to provide services for the people who are in need of blood, plasma by getting help from the donors who are interested in donating for the people. People who need ambulance, medicAid give this service too. Even MedicAid volunteers are always there to help anyone in need.  
The main modules of this system are:

Admin Login
Admin Profile
Modify Reviews
View Blood lists
Modify donor details (Blood/plasma)
Modify ambulance details 
Donor signup
Donor Login
Donor Search
View Donor Profile info
Modify Donor profile info
View all donor information
Volunteer Login
Volunteer Signup
View volunteer Profile info
Modify volunteer profile info
Ambulance search
Appointment form
Donation form





Admin:

Admin can manage both donors & acceptors. He can add or remove any user from the system. Each member in a donor & acceptor is given a user id and password, which identifies him uniquely. From admin module use can change donor details, delete donor or change the password.

Admin login
Admin profile
View Reviews
Delete Bad Reviews
View Blood lists
Modify donor details (Blood/plasma)
Delete donor details (Blood/plasma)
Modify ambulance details (Blood/plasma)
Delete ambulance details
Logout
 


Whenever a user wants to change his / her password he can select the change password option. The system displays the form, which asks him for his old password and new password. The system then compares the old password with the existing password in the database and if they match then the password is set to the new password in the database.



Donors

From this module user can create their account, when user create his account the user get a user id and password, which identifies him uniquely. From this module user can search donor for blood and can also refer his friend to become a donor. Donor can also get information like when he donated blood or when he will be able to donate blood.


Donor signup
Donor Login
View Donor Profile
Modify Donor profile
View all donor information
logout


Donor Registration:

In this module, people who are interested in donating blood get registered in my site and give his overall details related to him, i.e. he fills in a registration form by giving the total details such as name, address, city, sex, wt, dob, blood group, telephone numbers, e-mail address, etc. He was also given two fields’ username and password to fill such that he was a registered donor and he can enter the login form with his username and password and can modify his details if needed.



Modifying Donor Information:

The registered donor only is able to modify his details; no other person can modify his details as there was a login form which restricts others from entering the username and password providing high security for the details given by the donor. If at all the donor wants to modify his details, he was forced to give his username and password to enter in. After giving the username and password it checks for the donor whether he is an existing donor or not and if the username and password matches, he can then able to modify his total details. If the username and password do not exist then he gets a message as ‘Wrong ID and Password Entered, Try Again’.



Following links are available on donor and acceptor module.

· Why donate blood

· Who needs blood

· Find A Donor.

· Refer A Friend.

· Change password.

· Logout

Acceptors

This module helps user to find blood group. When user click on find a blood group system ask him to enter blood group he want to search. After entering the blood group, system search for the availability of the blood group and give him the list of the donors who has the same blood group. Whenever a user wants to change password he can select the change password option. Then system ask the user to enter old username and password then system check the credentials and change the password. Clicking on logout button user can log out from the system.

· Find A Donor.

· Refer A Friend.

· Change password.

· Find a Blood group.

· Logout



Donor Search:



The people who are in need of blood can search in our site for getting the details of donors having the same blood group and with in the same city. They can directly click on the link search a donor and can select a city name as well as the blood group which he needs. He then gets the details of the donors who exist with in the city and the same blood group that he has selected. If no match was are found for the city and group selected by him he gets a message ‘SORRY DONORS ARE NOT AVAILABE WITH THE FOLLOWING BLOOD GROUP AND AREA’.



Life Saving Contacts:



If at all the people in search of a donor doesn’t get any match for their area and group then they will be provided a service i.e. he will be given a Contact Person details for their near by cities who have the details of many other donors with him. The people in search can call him and can get the details of the donors and can be provided services in this manner. But this life saving contact persons can be available only for a limited number of cities but not for all. These contact persons are the authorized persons of my blood bank.





Stakeholders:
Admin
Donors
Users
Patients
Ambulance owners
Volunteers
Medical receptionists
Competitors
Sponsors


Functional Requirements
1. Login/ Signup
2. Donor profile/ registration
3. Stock Management
4.Donating Criteria
5.Contact us
6. Covid-19 tracker
6.Map

Non functional Requirements
1. Availability: Project will be accessible to users in Bangladesh.
2. Security: Ensures privacy.
3. Performance: System should be able to handle multiple users at a time using the web browser.
4. Reliability: To avoid data inconsistency, the database should follow transaction processing.

Advantages
-----------
Recipients can get blood easily.
In case of emergency, if the blood group is rare, he/she can find for the certain blood group donor.
Donors can also donate blood easily by signing up.

Disadvantage:
--------------
Requires active internet connection


Front End
---------
Main page
About page
User Sign-in page 
User Log-in page
User profile page 
Admin log-in page
Admin profile
Donation page
Volunteer page
Volunteer sign-up page
Volunteer log-in page
Volunteer orientation
Volunteer profile page
Expert volunteers
Under age 13 page
Ambulance page
Ambulance information page
Ambulance sign-in page
Ambulance log-in page
Ambulance profile page
Appointment page
Donation page
Donation form page
Bangladesh covid-19 info page
Blood donor information
Contact us page
Covid-19 page
Disaster page
Pregnancy page
Donating requirements page
Donor login
Donor signup
Donor profile
Feedback page
Footer & footer2 pages
Header & header2 pages
Information, information 1,2,3 pages
Plasma donor information page
Thank you pages



Back End
-------------
1. Account Creating, Password Recover:
a. Sign up form, verification by mobile or email.
b. Login form: user, admin, volunteer, donor, ambulance
c. Delete profile
d. Edit profile
e. Forgot Password
f. Appointment form
g. Donation form



Tools and Technologies:

----------

Bootstrap 4
PHP
HTML
CSS
Sublime Text/Atom
Database: phpMyAdmin
Selenium


user story
-----------
1. Sign up

Use case diagram
----------------

Sequence diagram
------------------
Class diagram
--------------

Screenshot
----------

Test Cases
-----------

Testing
-------
1. Validation Testing
2. Defect Testing



